README.md, before:

# ubuntu-autoinstall

Create an ISO for Ubuntu 22.04 unattended auto-install.

### Goals

- Create an ISO that boots itself with a cloud-config auto-installer.
- Publish examples of cloud-config files for BIOS and UEFI boot with LVM.

### Required packages (Ubuntu)

- p7zip-full
- p7zip-rar
- wget
- xorriso

### Build

The `create-iso.sh` script downloads a version of the Ubuntu 22.04 ISO, extracts the contents, adds a cloud-config with meta-data.yml, user-data.yml, and a grub.cfg entry.  The script then creates a new, bootable ISO.

To build an ISO:

 1. Copy either `user-data-bios.yml` or `user-data-efi.yml` to `user-data.yml`
 2. Adjust the script and yaml files to meet your needs
 3. Run `./create-iso.sh`

The `user-data.yml` file creates a system which should look something like the following (40GB test run):
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lsblk /dev/sda
NAME             MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTS
sda                8:0    0  40G  0 disk
├─sda1             8:1    0   1M  0 part
├─sda2             8:2    0   1G  0 part /boot
└─sda3             8:3    0  39G  0 part
  ├─vg1-lv_root  253:0    0   6G  0 lvm  /
  ├─vg1-lv_swap  253:1    0   4G  0 lvm  [SWAP]
  ├─vg1-lv_tmp   253:2    0   4G  0 lvm  /tmp
  ├─vg1-lv_home  253:3    0   4G  0 lvm  /home
  ├─vg1-lv_var   253:4    0   4G  0 lvm  /var
  ├─vg1-lv_log   253:5    0   4G  0 lvm  /var/log
  └─vg1-lv_audit 253:6    0   1G  0 lvm  /var/log/audit

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo pvs
  PV         VG  Fmt  Attr PSize   PFree
  /dev/sda3  vg1 lvm2 a--  <39.00g <12.00g

```

### CREDITS

Special credit to Dr. Donald Kinghorn who did all the p7zip and xorriso heavy lifting.

Credit to many others who posted sample configs for the various ideas they presented.

Commit message:

add a combined BIOS/UEFI yaml file save a copy of /autoinstall.yaml to /root

README.md, after:

# ubuntu-autoinstall

Create an ISO for Ubuntu 22.04 unattended auto-install.

### Goals

- Create an ISO that boots itself with a cloud-config auto-installer.
- Publish examples of cloud-config files for BIOS and UEFI boot with LVM.

### Required packages (Ubuntu)

- p7zip-full
- p7zip-rar
- wget
- xorriso

### Build

The `create-iso.sh` script downloads a version of the Ubuntu 22.04 ISO, extracts the contents, adds a cloud-config with meta-data.yml, user-data.yml, and a grub.cfg entry.  The script then creates a new, bootable ISO.

To build an ISO:

 1. Copy one of `user-data-bios.yml`, `user-data-efi.yml`, `user-data-bios+efi.yml` to `user-data.yml`
 2. Adjust the script and yaml files to meet your needs
 3. Run `./create-iso.sh`

The `user-data-bios+efi.yml` file auto-configures itself for either BIOS *or* UEFI, not both.

The `user-data.yml` file creates a system which should look something like the following (40GB test run):
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lsblk /dev/sda
NAME             MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTS
sda                8:0    0  40G  0 disk
├─sda1             8:1    0   1M  0 part
├─sda2             8:2    0   1G  0 part /boot
└─sda3             8:3    0  39G  0 part
  ├─vg1-lv_root  253:0    0   6G  0 lvm  /
  ├─vg1-lv_swap  253:1    0   4G  0 lvm  [SWAP]
  ├─vg1-lv_tmp   253:2    0   4G  0 lvm  /tmp
  ├─vg1-lv_home  253:3    0   4G  0 lvm  /home
  ├─vg1-lv_var   253:4    0   4G  0 lvm  /var
  ├─vg1-lv_log   253:5    0   4G  0 lvm  /var/log
  └─vg1-lv_audit 253:6    0   1G  0 lvm  /var/log/audit

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo pvs
  PV         VG  Fmt  Attr PSize   PFree
  /dev/sda3  vg1 lvm2 a--  <39.00g <12.00g

```

### CREDITS

Credit to Dr. Donald Kinghorn who did all the p7zip and xorriso heavy lifting.

Credit to many others who posted sample configs for the various ideas they presented.

Credit to Andrew Lowther for the early-commands cleverness.
